Project Overview
This repository contains the Verilog implementation of a Successive Approximation Register (SAR) Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC). The SAR ADC is widely used in applications requiring low power and moderate speed, making it ideal for embedded systems, sensor interfaces, and portable devices.

Key Features:
Verilog Implementation: The SAR ADC is fully implemented in Verilog, allowing for precise control over the hardware design and simulation.

CMOS Compatibility: Designed with CMOS technology in mind, this ADC is suitable for integration into modern System-on-Chip (SoC) environments where power efficiency is critical.

8-bit Resolution: The design supports an 8-bit resolution, providing a good balance between conversion accuracy and speed.

Power-Efficient Design: The SAR ADC is optimized for low power consumption, making it ideal for battery-operated devices.

Testbench and Simulation: Includes a comprehensive testbench to verify the ADC's functionality through simulation, covering a range of input scenarios.

How SAR ADC Works
The SAR ADC converts an analog input signal into a digital output by iteratively approximating the input voltage. Here's a brief description of how the SAR ADC operates:

Sample and Hold: The analog input signal is sampled and held at a constant value during the conversion process.

Successive Approximation: The SAR logic starts by setting the most significant bit (MSB) of the digital output and compares the corresponding DAC output with the input signal. Based on the comparison, the bit is either retained or cleared, and the process moves to the next bit.

Digital Output Generation: This process continues until all bits are evaluated, resulting in a digital representation of the analog input.

Conversion Completion: Once all bits are determined, the SAR ADC provides the final digital output, representing the input voltage.

Project Structure
Verilog Source Files:

sar_adc.v: The main Verilog file containing the SAR ADC design.
sar_logic.v: The SAR logic module responsible for the bit-by-bit approximation process.
dac.v: The Digital-to-Analog Converter (DAC) module used to compare the input signal with the DAC output.
Testbench:

sar_adc_tb.v: The testbench file for simulating the SAR ADC, including various test cases to validate the design.
Getting Started
Prerequisites
Verilog Simulation Tool: A Verilog simulation tool such as ModelSim, VCS, or any compatible EDA tool.
Installation
Clone the repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/sar-adc-verilog.git
cd sar-adc-verilog
Open the project files in your preferred Verilog simulation tool.

Run the simulations to verify the functionality of the SAR ADC.

Usage
Customization: The SAR ADC design can be modified to change the resolution or to optimize it for different performance metrics like speed or power consumption.

Integration: This SAR ADC module can be integrated into larger SoC designs, particularly in applications requiring analog signal processing.

Applications
Sensor Interfaces: Converting analog sensor outputs to digital signals for microcontrollers or digital processing units.
Portable Devices: Low-power ADCs for battery-operated devices like wearables or mobile gadgets.
Embedded Systems: Integration into embedded systems for processing analog inputs.
